---
layout: post
title:      "My First Project"
date:       2020-03-15 04:45:52 +0000
permalink:  my_first_project
---


I chose to do my CLI project on a program that retrieves weather data from www.metaweather.com using an API. Initially I was going to do another program but I quickly ran into obstacles that prevented me from retrieving data. I had different ideas as to how I would go about approaching this project. I chose to use a local environment. Figuring out what I needed was a significant challenge because I still couldn't get everything working unless I used an alternative way to get around the obstacles I was facing (not being able to get my bin folder working). One of the many examples of this was having a separate scraping file but it not working. So, instead I went with doing it in the same file that I was doing everything else in.

My original program was going to be about retrieving data pertaining to a video game and scraping character data. I quickly ran into issues that were preventing me from actually accessing the data because a lot of websites had some sort of limitations (registration, payment, etc). I decided to change it to a weather program when I found out there were a lot more options. After narrowing down the options and doing trial and error I ultimately landed on metaweather. I was planning on having the user be able to go with 2 different options when using the application; searching by zip code or by name. If you look at metaweather's API, you will be able to see a query and a lattlong (coordinates) option. I didn't think it would be practical for the user to have the coordinate option as people generally don't know which coordinates they are on. I still had a method that searches for the coordinates being input, but I was using it in an indirect way. I wanted the user to be able to use a zip code as a search option. For this I first had to make a get zip code method that accepted an argument (the argument would be a zip code). The zip code method would then  fetch a bunch of data from www.geocode.xyz. I used a variable to store the data after I used an iterator to only get me the country name and coordinates.  The data would interact in the CLI file where the coordinates from the zip code method would be unpacked and used as arguments for the coordinate search function. The data I was getting in wasn't specific to what I needed or prompted, so I used a .select with the requirements of it selecting the arrays that were created today. I was then able to output the data as it was updated throughout the day. This helped me a lot as the function is able to give up to date information. I used different classes that had different functions, I used inheritance from a parent class to pass on functionality and added new methods as needed. I also used a query class that is instantiated every time a query is done as well as holding arrays that are relevant to the location objects. 

Despite running into many odd issues, some of which I mentioned earlier, I really enjoyed working on this project. I would have liked to have more time to work on it but I had health issues that were preventing me from working on it. I believe most of my peers were done or almost done by the time I started the task but I did my best with the situation I was given and in the end I'm happy with what I was able to get done in a short amount of time. I still don't know why certain things weren't working and I couldn't spend longer than a day to troubleshoot since I was already on a huge time crunch anyway. For this I just ended up finding a solution which was downloading ruby with the devkit from rubyinstaller.org/downloads. This fixed many of the issues I was having such as my environment file not loading what I needed or my scraper file. That is why I jumbled everything in 2 files and required the devkit download because my CLI wouldn't work otherwise. 

I enjoyed the challenge of this project, as I said before I just wish I had more time to work on it to make it better and more appealing to the eye. I likely will keep working on it as I feel like I learned a lot of new material which felt really rewarding. All in all, I'm happy with the result and look forward to expanding the CLI's functionalities.



